So let's talk about projections.
What's fun about these is, you're gonna
learn all these concepts once and
then we're gonna go to
the next database and
a lot of these concepts being
almost exactly the same.
So projections exist in all
of these different databases.
It's probably something you've
actually done before and
you didn't know that there was a term for
it.
So let's say we wanted to
go find all the dogs but
we only wanted to see their names.
We don't actually wanna see
anything else about them.
We just wanna return their names,
we use something called
the projection to do that.
So I'm gonna say db.pets.find.
I'm gonna say type, dog.
And we're gonna end that object.
We're gonna provide a second
parameter to this find query here.
And all we wanna do is get the name.
So we're gonna say name.
And here you can put a lot of things.
You can put true.
You can put 1.
I end up normally putting 1.
I think that's just from habit.
But whatever you want to include in
your results, you just put that.
And I'm just gonna say here limit 5 so
we don't get a tonne of things back.
And you can see here,
all we're getting back is a name,
whereas up here we're getting
the whole object back.
Now, here's a bit of advice for
you when you're writing your
particular database queries.
Do the projections, right?
Only include the things that you need for
your query, don't include other things.
It's a security thing, which is useful
that if someone can get into your app
server, they can't see data flowing in and
out of it.
You'll notice that this is just
smaller in general, right?
So you'll end up using less bandwidth.
It's just a good idea to always only
include the things that you need,
don't include things that you don't need.
So even in this particular case,
notice it's included the ID.
It does that by default no matter what.
If I want to not include that,
you can actually come in here and
specifically disallow that.
So if I put negative -1 there or
false, both of those would work.
You can see.
It should not include that.
It's 0, it's not include.
So there you go.
That way, we actually even
disinclude the _ID as well.
So just to prove my point here,
you can also say name: true,
breed: true, I'm gonna do ID: false.
So all of those work as well.
And another thing that you can do as well,
you can actually just disinclude things.
So if I do ID false like that,
it'll include everything else.
So that's kind of takes a disallow list
kind of approach to projection as well
that is like, specifically don't include
these things, include everything else.
So let's say you're querying a user
database that has their password hash in
it, you could specifically just disinclude
that if you don't need that for
whatever you're doing.
So that's a lot of what's
about querying MongoDB.
So at this point, you're probably pretty
well equipped to just go out there and
start reading from MongoDB.
The nice thing about learning these
databases is 85% of the use case can
be learned in about, I don't know how
long we've been talking about now, or
something like that.
And then there's a very long tail of
really wild stuff that they can do.
So we'll talk a little
bit about the wild stuff.
But for the most part one,
you'd to be familiar with all these
different databases so that you can make
intelligent decisions about which
one you wanna use for your app.